# DEF CON Packet VisualizationThis visualization integrates with a SQL database and can be found (live demo!) at [max.t.axfp.org](http://max.t.axfp.org/).What's happening on "the most dangerous computer network in the world"? The Internet Protocol deUines addresses at which computers can send and receive discrete messages known as packets. Professor Ming Chow captured some 10 million IP packets from 50 minutes of the 2013 DEF CON computer security conference in Las Vegas, resulting in 15GB of impenetrable binary Uiles. By extracting metadata such as sender, receiver, packet size, and timestamp, one Uinds the bandwidth (rate of data transfer) to and from each foreign address over the time of the capture. Plotting these curves for all 8784 distinct foreign addresses, for uploads and downloads, would be worthless; instead only the global maximum of each is shown. Selecting a small number of points displays their entire bandwidth history. IP addresses are also associated with geographic locations, and these are plotted on a map.## Detailed Use InstructionsThe first thing to notice about what initially looks like a work of abstract art are the axes. The x-axis is time, on the afternoon of Friday August 2nd, 2013. The y-axis is the bandwidth; note the logarithmic scale.Internet Protocol addresses, or IP addresses, or simply IPs, can be local (part of the DEF CON network) or foreign (on the public internet). Each foreign IP has two dots: the red dot is the peak upload bandwidth and the blue dot is the peak download bandwidth. The dot pair for each foreign IP address are connected by a black line. Vertical lines indicate the upload and download spiked simultaneously; horizontal lines mean the peaked at different times.On the far left is the univariate distribution of bandwidth peaks, independent of time. Essentially, we squash all the red and blue dots down to a vertical line, and count them at each height. Leftward is more.The "Group IPs by subnet mask" control toggles between three versions of the data set. The numbers 16, 24, and 32 are the number of initial bits two addresses must have in common to be grouped together. IPs have 32 bits, so that setting performs no grouping. Less technically, this can be thought of as replacing dots for each house on a street with one dot for the entire street.Dragging over the main area creates a box; a live-updating number indicates how many exact IPs are inside the box (not the grouped versions). If there are fewer than ten, upon mouse release the dots are replaced by data points on their curves (instead of just their maxima). The IP addresses themselves are shown near the bottom; hover over them to emphasize those points in the main area and on the map. The grouping radio buttons now isolate uploads or downloads. The reset button on the left, beneath the y- axis, returns to the original view.The map on the bottom left initially displays one dot per IP address. When drawing a box, only the included IPs get dots. When showing individual bandwidth curves, the color-coded locations of the selected IP addresses are shown instead.###Things to TryCreate a very wide or very narrow box and sweep it over the main area. What do you notice about the relative density or geographic distribution as you vary bandwidth or time?Select a small number of points from different areas of the plot. Is bandwidth stable with time or does it spike? How would your organize recurring patterns?